sig-auth: forward additional request metadata to *Reviews (#2843)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-auth/2843-request-ctx-in-token-review/README.md

# KEP-2843: Forward Additional Request Metadata in TokenReviews

<!-- toc -->
- [Summary](#summary)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
  - [Goals](#goals)
  - [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
- [Proposal](#proposal)
  - [Test Plan](#test-plan)
  - [Graduation Criteria](#graduation-criteria)
  - [Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy](#upgrade--downgrade-strategy)
  - [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy)
<!-- /toc -->

## Summary

> This KEP proposes enhancing the TokenReview API to convey additional request

Reviewer: would you narrowly add this to TokenReview, or also to the authz and admission review objects?

Author: Discussed below.

context to the backing Identity Provider (IDP).

## Motivation

Today, certain request attributes that are known to kube-apiserver may be
relevant to the backend of a TokenReview webhook. For example:

* Was the request made over https?
* What are the IP addresses of the peer and origin of the request?

These attributes can be used to enhance audit logs in the IDP, determine access
levels (such as whether the request originates from a trusted network), or
enforce security policy centrally (such as disallowing bearer token
authentication over insecure protocols).

### Goals

* Forward additional request metadata to TokenReview. 

### Non-Goals

* Forward resource metadata to TokenReview: The object of the request (e.g.
  which verb, which namespace, which pod) should remain unknown to the IDP.
* Forward addition request metadata to SubjectAccessReview or AdmissionReview:

>   That's what User.ExtraInfo is for.

Reviewer: > That's what User.ExtraInfo is for.

is it? do attributes of the incoming request belong to the user? a side effect of including here is that it gets persisted in places like CSR `spec.extra`... is that desired?

Author: Trying to keep this minimal, I imagined a few scenarios that are satisfied by only plumbing this to TokenReview:
* Auditing IPs in the IDP
* 401 rejecting based on some policy with an input of attributes + token.
* Forwarding (hopefully summarized, not blindly copied) metadata to authorization and admission via extra info.

I buy the argument for extending the plumbing of the raw metadata through authorization to support users authenticated via different mechanisms. Is there a reasonable case to expose this info to admission? What's the philosophy there?

Reviewer: >  Is there a reasonable case to expose this info to admission? What's the philosophy there?

* in general, I would expect admission webhooks to have all the information given to authorization webhooks
* implementing targeted deny-only authorization checks seems better done with a dynamically-configured resource-scoped admission webhook than with a statically-configured authorization webhook
* any policy that needs to make decisions based on request content and request origin would have to do so in admission

Author: Updated, PTAL.

## Proposal

We will extend TokenReviewSpec to add an additional field:

```golang

type TokenReviewSpec struct {
  ...

  // RequestAttributes is a collection of request attributes that may be relevant
  // to a TokenReview backend. These attributes should generally be stable over
  // multiple requests.
  //

>   // Note: TokenReview webhook backends should handle abscences of this field or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Note: TokenReview webhook backends must handle absences of this field or
```

>   // subfields of the RequestAttribute object. This data may be abscent when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // subfields of the RequestAttribute object. This data may be absent when the
```

  // API Server initiating the TokenReview is old or the data was unavailable.
  RequestAttributes RequestAttributes
}
...

type RequestAttributes struct {  
  // The HTTP request `Host` header value.
  Host string

  // The HTTP URL scheme, such as `http` and `https`.
  Scheme string

  // The IP address of the remote peer.
  //
  // Note: This is only the IP address of the originator of the request, when
  // the network path of the request does not traverse any hops that perform
  // SNAT. For example, if the request path traverses a simple proxy, this
  // will be the address of the proxy.
  PeerIP string

  // Additional standard headers used by frontproxies to forwarded request
  // attributes to backends. Currently, the only forwarded headers are:
  // * X-Forwarded-For
  // * X-Forwarded-Proto

>   ProxyHeaders map[string][]string

Author: Added since we support this in audit logs. In the naive implementation, this field is user controlled when no L7 proxies are used. Some options:
* We can forward this to the backend and let the backend determine what combination of ProxyHeaders and fields to trust.
* Somehow determine that proxy headers should be trusted, and then forward.

}
```

These attributes will be resolved in RequestInfo filter and populated in the
[RequestInfo] struct. The cached token authenticator will be updated to include
request attributes in the hash key. Notably, this means that volatile
attributes (e.g. a millisecond timestamp or trace ID) are not suitable to
include in RequestAttributes.

[RequestInfo]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/fffaadc01331cca57cafa0fc066a2a3eec23acb8/staging/src/k8s.io/apiserver/pkg/endpoints/request/requestinfo.go#L42

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd be interested in a discussion (alternatives considered?) of why this shouldn't just be handled as an authenticating proxy.

Author: Added an alternative for front proxy. Let me know if you have any other alternatives you'd like explored in the KEP.
